README.md, before:

# Respeaker 4-Mic Array with Picroft :sound:
**How I got the [Seeeds ReSpeaker 4-Mic Array](https://www.seeedstudio.com/ReSpeaker-4-Mic-Array-for-Raspberry-Pi-p-2941.html) working together with [Picroft](https://github.com/MycroftAI/enclosure-picroft) (2018-09-11 Stretch Lightning) running on a Raspberry Pi 3B+.**

Note: this documentation was only written as a reminder for myself on how to do this.

These first instructions are taken from Seeeds offical [documentation](https://github.com/SeeedDocument/ReSpeaker-4-Mic-Array-for-Raspberry-Pi/blob/master/ReSpeaker-4-Mic-Array-for-Raspberry-Pi.md)

Get the voice card source code.
```
git clone https://github.com/respeaker/seeed-voicecard.git
cd seeed-voicecard
sudo ./install.sh 4mic
reboot
```
Select the headphone jack for output.
```
sudo raspi-config
# Select 7 Advanced Options
# Select A4 Audio
# Select 1 Force 3.5mm ('headphone') jack
# Select Finish
```
You can now check the sound card name with this command. Mine did not look exactly the same as Seeeds showed in their complete documentation.
```
pi@raspberrypi:~/seeed-voicecard $ arecord -L
```
Now you should be able to try the microphone:
```
arecord -Dac108 -f S32_LE -r 16000 -c 4 hello.wav
aplay hello.wav 
```
However, to get the microphone to actually work together with Mycroft you have to download pulseaudio.
```
sudo apt-get install pulseaudio
reboot
```
After doing this the audio indicator in the Mycroft CLI should now be moving. Although, the audio output might of stopped working. 

To fix the audio output I tried to remove the *suspend on idle* setting in this file ` /etc/pulse/default.pa ` but i don't think it actually has an impact so you can try to skip this step.

Using this command you can see that the audio level for the output is set to 0%.
```
pacmd list-sinks
```
To change the volume use:
```
pactl set-sink-volume 0 95%
```
To ensure that this setting will persist you could add the command to the `audio_setup.sh` file.

Commit message:

Added a better fix
Based on the following solution:
https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=38&t=138042&p=916210#p916210

README.md, after:

# Respeaker 4-Mic Array with Picroft :sound:
**How I got the [Seeeds ReSpeaker 4-Mic Array](https://www.seeedstudio.com/ReSpeaker-4-Mic-Array-for-Raspberry-Pi-p-2941.html) working together with [Picroft](https://github.com/MycroftAI/enclosure-picroft) (2018-09-11 Stretch Lightning) running on a Raspberry Pi 3B+.**

Note: this documentation was only written as a reminder for myself on how to do this.

These first instructions are taken from Seeeds offical [documentation](https://github.com/SeeedDocument/ReSpeaker-4-Mic-Array-for-Raspberry-Pi/blob/master/ReSpeaker-4-Mic-Array-for-Raspberry-Pi.md)

Get the voice card source code.
```
git clone https://github.com/respeaker/seeed-voicecard.git
cd seeed-voicecard
sudo ./install.sh 4mic
reboot
```
Select the headphone jack for output.
```
sudo raspi-config
# Select 7 Advanced Options
# Select A4 Audio
# Select 1 Force 3.5mm ('headphone') jack
# Select Finish
```
You can now check the sound card name with this command. Mine did not look exactly the same as Seeeds showed in their complete documentation.
```
pi@raspberrypi:~/seeed-voicecard $ arecord -L
```
Now you should be able to try the microphone:
```
arecord -Dac108 -f S32_LE -r 16000 -c 4 hello.wav
aplay hello.wav 
```
However, to get the microphone to actually work together with Mycroft you have to change a couple of ALSA config files and create an asymmetric ALSA device.

Create a the file `~/.asoundrc` and add the following lines of code.
```
pcm.!default {
    type asym
    playback.pcm "hw:0,0"
    capture.pcm "hw:1,0"
}
```

Replace the default settings in the `/etc/asound.conf` file with the same config code as well. Then reboot. The microhphone should now be working correctly together with Mycroft.

<hr>

Alternativly you can install pulse audio and follow these instructions:
```
sudo apt-get install pulseaudio
reboot
```
After doing this the audio indicator in the Mycroft CLI should now be moving. Although, the audio output might of stopped working. 

To fix the audio output I tried to remove the *suspend on idle* setting in this file ` /etc/pulse/default.pa ` but i don't think it actually has an impact so you can try to skip this step.

Using this command you can see that the audio level for the output is set to 0%.
```
pacmd list-sinks
```
To change the volume use:
```
pactl set-sink-volume 0 95%
```
To ensure that this setting will persist you could add the command to the `audio_setup.sh` file.
